//Udemy RTOS notes.


Section 2 RTOS introduction 
---------------------------


Class 7: What is real time application RTA
--------------------------------------------

The myth is the Real time computing is equivalent to fast computing,
but the truth is the Real time computing is equivalent to predictable computing. 

Promises to meet its deadline for a given timeline

A real time application promises a fairly constant response time, no matter in which constraint
you execute that application

RTA's have to meet the strict given response time. 
RTA's are time deterministic applications


There could be a small deviation in real time applications,
response time as well in terms of milliseconds or seconds which will fall into the category of soft real time applications. 
Hard real time applications must complete within a given time limit.

Soft real time requirements are those that state time deadline, but breaching the deadline would not render
the system useless.

There could be a small deviation in terms of milliseconds or seconds, in terms of response time of a
soft real time requirements.

So,they are not strict as hard real time systems.

Some more example of a real time applications are Missile guidance and control system.

This is indeed a hard time system because, timeliness and response time is always strict and the deviation
in the response time can cause chaos.

All the control system requirements are usually hard real time systems.

Anti-locking breaking system in a car, which is truly a hard real time scenario and

Airbag deployment in a four wheeler also can be considered as hard real time applications.
Because, the response time for detecting a crash to the deployment of an airbag is very important, isn't it?

So,whereas the VOIP,that is voice over internet can be considered as a soft real time, because during
communication there could be always a delay while transmitting packets and there could be dropping a
couple of packets.
Example: Whats app Call. 

All these missing deadlines and dropping off packets cannot be perceived by the user.
Sometimes the user will not be able to notice it.

That's why, VOIP application can be considered as a soft real time system.

So, other than that this Aircraft control, ATMs, robotics, medical applications, and there are many
other applications where real-time applications play an important role.

Aero space => fault detection[Hard],Display[Soft]
Communication => Video streaming[Soft], whats app Call [Soft] 

Class 8 Real time operating System.
-------------------------------------

It's an OS ofcourse, specially designed to run applications
with very precise timing and high degree of reliability.

The well-known operating systems like Linux, Windows, the Mac OS, the iOS, and the Android, they all
fall into the category of GPOS.

RTOS : Vxworks [Intel] , Qnx [Blackberry] , INTEGRITY 

Class 9 RTOS vs GPOS : Task Scheduling
---------------------------------------
Throughput means-the total number of processes that complete their execution per unit time.

So to a RTOS, achieving perfectibility or time deterministic nature is more important than throughput,
but for the GPOS achieving higher throughput for user convenience is more important.




